This is JW Broadcasting reporting on the circumstances of our brothers in Liberia.
We have Phil O'Dell, with us, who serves on the Branch Committee in that country.
We will hear how our brothers in Liberia have faired during the past few months during
the Ebola outbreak.
Pearl is well aware of the Ebola virus in some countries in West Africa, and the global
concern that the disease would spread to epidemic proportions beyond that region.
As mentioned, we have Phil O'Dell from Liberia here.
Phil, can you update us on the current situation?
Certainly.
Liberia, along with Sierra Leone and Guinea, have been the country's hardest hit by the
deadly Ebola virus.
This current outbreak started at the early part of 2014 in Guinea.
Since we have 6,400 publishers in Liberia and 125 paragations, we were naturally concerned
with this current.
Well, out of the branches in those countries respond.
Very quickly, both of the branches in Sierra Leone and Liberia wrote letters to the congregations,
the traveling overseers, these letters instructed the brothers what they could do to protect
themselves and the congregations.
Suggestions included frequent handwashing, avoiding shaking hands and kissing as greetings,
avoiding contact with the sick.
Also avoiding the eating of bushmeats and avoiding some of the or many of the common burial
and funeral customs.
For the memorial, all of the congregations were asked to set up handwashing stations outside
the venue for everyone attending.
But in spite of this looming concern, 76,000 attended the memorial, 11 times the number
of publishers we have.
That is truly amazing.
Now, how has the situation progressed since then in Liberia?
In July, there was a sharp increase in the spread of the virus, especially hard hit was
the capital city, Monrovia.
The government declared a state of emergency and imposed a curfew.
As cases increased in number, many wondered how the August JW.org campaign would be affected.
Very interesting.
Were the brothers in that very special month of activity able to have a full share in
the ministry?
Yes, they were.
Actually, 1,202 auxiliary pioneered that month.
That was 19% of our publishers.
The brothers and sisters looked for creative ways to witness.
At the same time, they observed the safety measures such as washing their hands in a bleach
water solution before speaking with the householders.
And this was done a number of times throughout the day as they were in the service.
Some did telephone witnessing.
Cellophones are widely used in Liberia, but because of the cost, conversations are often kept
short.
However, one of the major cell phone providers offered a promotion that for one US dollar,
they were given three days of unlimited calls.
This allowed the publishers to safely call, return visits, and even conduct Bible studies
from their homes.
I'm encouraging that is that the organization helped in other ways.
Well, disaster relief committees were set up in areas that were the hardest hit.
They made sure that the brothers and sisters had food and other basic necessities.
The elders communicated regularly to assess the situation, keeping the field service groups
away from the affected areas.
The congregations adjusted their meeting times to respect the curfew.
However, in one area, they did have to suspend their meetings for two months because there
were too many cases of Ebola.
Instead, each family conducted their own meetings with the different family members handling
the various parts.
Additionally, arrangements were made by the local elders and ministerial servants to visit
different homes and give public talks and conduct a watchtower study.
It is beautiful.
It's so encouraging to hear that most of our dear brothers were able to enjoy the spiritual
food provided.
And from what you say, it sounds like the elders did a good job of shepherding.
Yes, they did extremely well.
The disaster relief committees and traveling overseers made sure to make regular shepherding
visits on those who lost loved ones to the virus.
All the while, emphasizing the importance of following the clear guidelines and precautions
set out by the organization.
Well, let me ask you this.
Did the branch office receive any comments on how we handled the Ebola threat?
We received many favorable remarks from those inside and outside of the organization.
One congregation wrote this, unknown to us, there was a healthcare volunteer who was sent
to the Kingdom Hall to teach us about the Ebola virus and its prevention.
But after the meeting, he said this, I came here purposely to teach your congregation
about the Ebola virus, but the information you people had is more than what I came to
teach.
When I entered the church yard, I saw a bucket with a soap water mixed with chlorox for
washing hands.
Even the children were all in line for washing their hands.
Thank you very much and please continue the fine work.
We also forwarded the letters that we sent to the congregations regarding Ebola precautions
to the Liberia Ministry of Health and Social Welfare.
We received the following comment via email.
The minister has instructed to convey his appreciation for your efforts in the fight against
the spread of Ebola.
We hope that others will emulate your work towards this effort.
Very interesting.
Now, you took all the precautions that you could take, but realistically, individually,
we are not protected from the effects of such a pestilence.
How many of our dear publishers have we lost?
Sadly, at this point, 11 witnesses have died from Ebola in Liberia and one passed away
in Sierra Leone.
One of those that died in Liberia were healthcare workers and three of the others were family
members of those health workers.
Additionally, many of our fellow servants have lost unbelieving family members, so unfortunately,
many have experienced the sting of death in connection with this deadly virus.
I'm sure our brothers have been bolstered with the Resurrection Hope, which is held out
for fellow believers as well as family members.
Notable to is a scripture at Romans chapter 14 and verse 8.
Under inspiration, it says this,
For if we live, we live to Jehovah.
And if we die, we die to Jehovah.
So both if we live and if we die, we belong to Jehovah.
So certain is the Resurrection that those who succumb to the disease are as still alive
to our God.
Phil, how has the Bethel family feared under this circumstance?
They are following the precautions and staying focused on their assignment and how they can
support the ministry.
Interestingly, when Liberia was seeing the sharp increase in Ebola cases, the majority
of the foreign servants like myself, we were out of the country to attend international
conventions.
So many of us did not face the brunt of the virus, but we all very much look forward to
returning to our assignments.
Yes, we can see that.
Having you in our office, we know that you and your dear wife Jessica are eager to get
back to the brothers and sisters there.
And yet many are still facing daily the dilemma.
Is there anything that you would like to say to our dear brothers in West Africa?
Certainly.
Brothers and sisters, it was prophesied that in the last days, there would be pestilence.
Luke chapter 21 verse 11 makes it clear.
It is part of the sign that the kingdom will soon end Satan's rule.
Verse 36, however, encourages us all to keep awake.
You friends are doing this very thing.
You continue to preach, staying faithful, and Jehovah's direction through his organization
is clear.
It is faith strengthening to me.
It reminds me of the words at Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 10.
There at Proverbs 18, 10, it says, the name of Jehovah is a strong tower into it.
The righteous one runs and receives protection.
You brothers and sisters have faithfully turned to Jehovah.
For some, they are in the safest place there is.
That's Jehovah's memory.
May all of us continue to run to Jehovah and his organization, and he will write all such
wrongs everlastingly.
I'm sure the brothers really appreciate those thoughts, Phil.
It's touching to see the willingness of the brothers to follow direction and to be obedient
to the direction given.
And that reduces the amount of tragedy that our brothers have experienced.
Thank you, Brother Odell, for being with us.
Now, we understand you're going to be returning to Liberia soon.
Thank you, and yes, we are definitely looking forward to going back.
We pray that Jehovah continues to give the branch committees and the local brothers
in the region, wisdom, insight, and thinking ability.
If you would like to learn more about our brothers in Liberia, you can watch the highlights
from the Liberia Branch dedication program held in 2013.
It's available on video on demand under programs and events category.
Until next time, this is JW Broadcasting reporting from Brooklyn, New York.